                         Statistics– WORKSHEET 4

Q1 to Q9 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.

1. Bernoulli random variables take (only) the values 1 and 0.
      a) True
      b) False
Ans: a) True

2. Which of the following theorems states that the distribution of averages of iid variables, properly normalized, becomes that of a standard normal as the sample size increases?
a) Central Limit Theorem
b) Central Mean Theorem
c) Centroid Limit Theorem
d) All of the mentioned

Ans: a) Central Limit Theorem

3. Which of the following is incorrect with respect to use of Poisson distribution?
a) Modeling event/time data
b) Modeling bounded count data
c) Modeling contingency tables
d) All of the mentioned

Ans: b) Modeling bounded count data

4. Point out the correct statement.
a) The exponent of a normally distributed random variables follows what is called the log-normal distribution
b) Sums of normally distributed random variables are again normally distributed even if the variables are dependent
c) The square of a standard normal random variable follows what is called chi-squared distribution
d) All of the mentioned-

Ans: d) All of the mentioned-

5. _ random variables are used to model rates.
a) Empirical
b) Binomial
c) Poisson
d) All of the mentioned

Ans: c) Poisson

6. Usually replacing the standard error by its estimated value does change the CLT.
a) True
b) False

Ans: b) False

7. Which of the following testing is concerned with making decisions using data?
a) Probability
b) Hypothesis
c) Causal
d) None of the mentioned

Ans: b) Hypothesis

8. Normalized data are centered at ___ and have units equal to standard deviations of the original data.
a) 0 b) 5 c) 1 d) 10

Ans: a) 0

9. Which of the following statements is incorrect with respect to outliers?
a) Outliers can have varying degrees of influence
b) Outliers can be the result of spurious or real processes
c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship
d) None of the mentioned

Ans: c) Outliers cannot conform to the regression relationship

Q10and Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them in your own words briefly.

10. What do you understand by the term Normal Distribution?

Ans: Normal distribution, also known as the Gaussian distribution, is a probability distribution that is symmetric about the mean, showing that data near the mean are more frequent in occurrence than data 
     far from the mean. In graph form, normal distribution will appear as a bell curve.

11. How do you handle missing data? What imputation techniques do you recommend?

Ans: Missing data (or missing values) is defined as the data value that is not stored for a variable in the observation of interest. The problem of missing data is relatively common in almost all research 
     and can have a significant effect on the conclusions that can be drawn from the data. Accordingly, some studies have focused on handling the missing data, problems caused by missing data, and the methods to avoid or minimize such in medical research.
     However, until recently, most researchers have drawn conclusions based on the assumption of a complete data set.

The method used in handling missing data are :
1. Listwise or case deletion.
2. Pairwise deletion. 
3. Mean substitution.
4. Regression imputation.
5. Last observation carried forward.
6. Maximum likelihood. 
7. Expectation-Maximization.
8. Multiple imputation.


12. What is A/B testing?

Ans: A/B testing is the process of comparing two variations of a page element, usually by testing users' response to variant A vs variant B, and concluding which of the two variants is more effective.
There are various reasons why we do A/B testing. A few of them include solving visitor pain points, increasing website conversions or leads, and decreasing the bounce rate. Read our guide to know the rest of the reasons.

13. Is mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice?

Ans: Yes,  mean imputation of missing data acceptable practice because of the following reasons: 
• Bad practice in general
• If just estimating means: mean imputation preserves the mean of the observed data
• Leads to an underestimate of the standard deviation
• Distorts relationships between variables by “pulling” estimates of the correlation toward zero
• This method is applicable for continuous variables only.
• It is very fast method, but the disadvantage of the mean imputation reduces variance in the dataset.


14. What is linear regression in statistics?

Ans: In statistics, linear regression is a linear approach to modeling the relationship between a scalar response (or dependent variable) and one or more explanatory variables (or independent variables). For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression. Linear regression is the next step up after correlation.
    It is used when we want to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another variable. The variable we want to predict is called the dependent variable (or sometimes, the outcome variable).

• One variable, denoted x, is regarded as the predictor, explanatory, or independent variable.
• The other variable, denoted y, is regarded as the response, outcome, or dependent variable

15. What are the various branches of statistics?

Ans: The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics.
Descriptive Statistics:
Descriptive statistics is the first part of statistics that deals with the collection of data. People seem it too easy, but it is not that easy. The statisticians need to be aware of the designing and experiments. They also need to choose the right focus group and avoid biases. In contrast, Descriptive statistics are used in use to do various kinds of analysis on different studies.
Descriptive statistics have two parts
• Central tendency measures
• Mean
• Median
• Mode
• Variability measures

Inferential Statistics:
The inference statistics are techniques that enable statisticians to use the information collected from the sample to conclude, bring decisions, or predict a defined population.
Inference statistics often speak in terms of probability by using descriptive statistics. Besides, these techniques are used primarily by a statistician for data analysis, drafting, and making conclusions from limited information. That is obtained by taking samples and testing how reliable they are.
Different types of inferential statistics include:
• Regression analysis
• Analysis of variance (ANOVA)
• Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA)
• Statistical significance (t-test)
• Correlation analysis
